 
                         NEWAPP and DOSLIB

                         *** IMPORTANT ***

NEWAPP.SCR and DOSLIB.SCR are subject to change (really!)  There is
no guarantee - or intent - that future versions will remain backward
compatible.  When backing up or distributing application source code
that uses DOSLIB.SCR, it is important to include a copy as later
versions of DOSLIB may no longer be compatible.

                           Introduction

NEWAPP is a skeletal program that allows users to quickly develop a
DOS application.  It provides often needed tasks including error
handling, command-line parsing, file operations, buffered I/O, help
screen, number and string functions.

NEWAPP comprises two parts:

  NEWAPP.SCR   skeletal main program
  DOSLIB.SCR   function library

NEWAPP is supplied as a functioning program which may be turnkeyed.
Styled as a typical DOS command-line application it demonstrates
how the various tasks are integrated to form a functioning program.
Making NEWAPP perform a useful task can be as easy as adding one
line.  In this instance it is line 6 of the definition (RUN) which
turns NEWAPP into a simple filecopy utility.

DOSLIB is a library of Forth and DOS functions in source form.
While the primary role is support for NEWAPP, DOSLIB may be used
by any application.  DOSLIB is organized as named modules.
1 FLOAD DOSLIB  causes the names of all the modules contained in
DOSLIB to be loaded into the dictionary.  Executing the name of a
module causes the corresponding code to be loaded into memory.
NEWAPP automatically loads DOSLIB and a default set of modules.

New users are encouraged to examine and understand how NEWAPP works
before attempting to create their own application.  The following
notes should help with some of the less obvious aspects.  Unless
otherwise stated all screen references refer to NEWAPP.SCR.

First, an explanation of the function +IS which is used by NEWAPP.
+IS is similar to IS but instead of replacing the existing behaviour
of a DEFERed word, it chains in a new action.  When the deferred word
is eventually executed, all actions in the chain will be performed
beginning with the most recently added.

1. Setting the options

   Screen 1 defines the title of the program, version, date and name
   for the turnkey executable.

   The programmer may optionally specify the upper limit of memory for
   turnkey applications (Screen 1 line 10).  This is useful for
   environments where memory is limited.  The calculation includes 256
   bytes for PAD and data stack, plus any RESERVE bytes tallied at
   compile-time.  Typically RESERVE holds the total number of bytes the
   program will ALLOT or otherwise need at run-time.  By default LIMIT
   is set to the maximum available memory i.e. the compiler's top of
   memory address (usually $FFF0 for MS-DOS or CCP/BDOS base for CP/M).

   Screen 2 loads the remainder of the application.  It also defines
   and sets the action for several deferred words which are explained
   below.

   ONSTART is a deferred word.  Its function is to perform any system
   initialization that may be required before the application begins.
   Typically these will be "run once" tasks such as alloting buffers
   or initializing memory management functions.  Actions are added to
   ONSTART via +IS.

   SET-IO is a deferred word that sets the console input/output method.
   By default SET-IO is set to BIOS-IO.  Users needing DOS console I/O
   redirection can do so either by selectively surrounding words with
   DOS-IO ... SET-IO  pairs or by uncommenting the line:
   ' DOS-IO IS SET-IO.

   The DOSLIB disk read/write routines include a keyboard test.  If
   ESC CTRL-C or CTRL-BREAK keys are detected, the user is given an
   opportunity to abort the program.  The feature may be disabled by
   commenting out the line: ' (?BREAK) IS ?BREAK.

   ONERROR is the application's top-level error handler.  It intercepts
   exceptions before the system's error handler deals with it.  ONERROR
   permits the application to perform any necessary 'clean-up' tasks
   before aborting.

   ONERROR is a deferred word whose action is modified with +IS.  An
   example is the DOSLIB 'files' module which extends ONERROR to
   automatically close the default files should an error occur.

   Note: If a function performed by ONERROR itself generates an exception
   then the original exception that caused ONERROR to execute is likely
   to be masked.

2. Loading DOSLIB modules

   Screen 3 of NEWAPP.SCR initializes the DOSLIB library then proceeds
   to load the named modules.  This screen contains the support modules
   typically needed by NEWAPP based applications. If your application
   does not require a particular module and you wish to conserve space,
   then you may comment out the line on which the module's name appears.

3. Default files

   The default files module simplifies much of the drudgery associated
   with file handling e.g. display of filenames when opening, overwrite
   checking, error messages when reading or writing files etc.

   One input and one output file are supported which is sufficient for
   most applications.  The usual file read/write functions are provided
   including file position and reposition.  Output file overwrite
   checking is enabled by default.  It may be turned off by uncommenting
   the line:  WRTCHK OFF  on screen 2.

   When an application aborts as a result of a fatal error, the default
   files will be automatically flushed and closed.  If it is desired to
   delete the default output file, it can be done by uncommenting the
   line on screen 2:  ' DELOUTFILE +IS ONERROR

   FLUSHWRITE is an optional function that works similarly to FLUSH-FILE.
   Data written to the default output file is forced to disk updating
   the directory.  Buffered output, if loaded, is also flushed.

4. Buffered files

   This is an optional extension to the default files and allows reading
   and writing one character at a time.  For speed buffers are used to
   hold the data.  Buffer refill and flushing is automatic and requires
   no user intervention.  The default buffer size is 512 bytes and is
   given by /INBUF /OUTBUF respectively.  Normally the buffers are
   allocated at compile-time but this can be changed to run-time if
   desired.

   Example: Allocate the buffered output file at run-time and change
   the buffer size to 1024 bytes.

   Make the following changes to the copy of NEWAPP.SCR that will be
   your application.

   Step 1. Disable compile-time buffer allocation by setting /OUTFILE
   to zero prior to executing _Bufoutfile.

     ( Screen 3 Line 13)
     0 to /OUTFILE  _Bufoutfile      \ buffered output file
      
   Step 2. Initialize output buffer at run-time by creating a word to
   perform the task and appending it to deferred word ONSTART.

     ( Screen 2 Line 13)
     :noname ( -- )  #1024 to /OUTFILE  here to OUTFILE
     /OUTFILE allot  resetoutbuf ; +is ONSTART

   Note: Applications may apply this technique to any large buffer used
   by the program.  It is useful for keeping turnkey executables small
   and/or allocating buffers greater than would fit in memory at compile-
   time.

